README.md, before:

# Automate Linux Foundation Certificate Assertion

This is a simple Google App Script that can be added to a Google spreadsheet in order to assert Linux Foundation  [CKA](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-administrator-cka/) and [CKAD](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-application-developer-ckad/) certificates. The script has to be copied/added to the spreadsheet since it is not possible to associate a spreadsheet with custom App Script project.

The script installs a trigger that runs executes validation function each `PeriodInHours` hours. The spreadsheet has to have two sheets with the fixed names:

- "Responses" -- contains information about certificates that has to be asserted
- "Automation" -- stores emails of the certificate holders who passed the validation

At the moment, the script validates _*ONLY*_ one certificate (either CKA or CKAD). The information that is required for validation includes:

- email of the certificate holder
- LF digital badge id issued by [youracclaim.com](https://youracclaim.com)
- email used for the certificate registration (can be empty if it is same to the holder's email)
- LF certificate number (can be empty)

The script uses [OBI Assertion API](https://www.youracclaim.com/docs/obi_specified_endpoints) to verify digital badge id. It validates

- the digital badge is valid
- the digital badge is not expired
- the digital badge is granted to the correct email
- the LF certificate associated with the badge match the provided LF certificate. If the certificate isn't provided, the validation confirms the certificate is CKA or CKAD respectively

Commit message:

modify code to work with multiple certificates
the code works with different types of certificates (namely CKA and CKAD)
in the same spreadsheet.
add support for dynamic and static info via different sheets.

README.md, after:

# Automate Linux Foundation Certificate Assertion

This is an App Script that is intended for a Google spreadsheet in order to assert Linux Foundation  [CKA](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-administrator-cka/) and [CKAD](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-application-developer-ckad/) certificates.
The script uses the fact that Linux Foundation had started [issuing](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/badges/) digital badge ids for their Kubernetes certificates.
Using the digital badge id it is possible to validate the certificate vs. email of the owner and expiration date.
The script uses [OBI Assertion API](https://www.youracclaim.com/docs/obi_specified_endpoints) to validate the certificates.

## How it works

The script installs a time based trigger that runs every 6 hours and executes a validation function.
The function reads information from two sheets: "Responses" and "Legacy Responses" and refreshes the list of validated emails together with the a code of the badge to the "Automation" sheet.
The "Responses" sheet is used by the Google Form that allows to post the digital badge id and the email of the certificate owner while the "Legacy Responses" sheet stores the static information from "legacy" submitters.

The script differentiates between different Kubernetes certificates using youracclaim badge URLs:

| Badge | URL |
|---|---|
| CKA | `https://api.youracclaim.com/api/v1/obi/v2/issuers/f4b8d042-0072-4a1a-8d00-260b513026e8/badge_classes/64567b66-def2-4c84-be6c-2586962fccd3` |
| CKAD | `https://api.youracclaim.com/api/v1/obi/v2/issuers/f4b8d042-0072-4a1a-8d00-260b513026e8/badge_classes/067f5afd-160d-42df-961e-31d19e117173` |
| CKS | _will be supported soon_ |

The validation process issues assertion request to the [OBI endpoint](https://www.youracclaim.com/docs/obi_specified_endpoints#get-badge-assertion) and validates the following:

- A response code is [200](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/200)
- The badge is not expired at the validation date/time
- The email of the badge owner matches the submitted email
- The badge URL is in the supported list of the badges

> :information_source: **NOTE:** Other types of the ownership validation beside the email aren't supported
